
3

Automatic Zoom
  1.  Project  Based  Learning    is  the  application  of  the  comprehensive  methodology  to  inculcate  the  spirit  of 
strategizing industry operations in a real-time environment  
2. The project work aims to foster students with an opportunity to develop conceptual, analytical, 
communication and interpersonal skills.  
3. Selection of  Project work Topic 
The  choice  of  topic  for  the  project  work  and  the  approach  to  be  adopted  needs  to  be  based  on  the  field  of 
specialization. It  is  important  to  distinguish  between  ‘project work topic’ and ‘project work title’. The topic is the specific 
area that you wish to investigate. The title may not be decided until the project work has been written so as to 
reflect its content properly. 
 
4. The project topic should conform to the following: 
Relevant to business or technology, defined broadly; Related to one or more of the subjects or areas of study within the core program and specialization; Clearly focused so as to facilitate in-depth study, subject to the availability of adequate sources of information 
and to your own knowledge; Of value and interest to you and your personal and professional development. 
 
5. Planning the Project work 
Selecting an original and relevant topic for investigation. Establishing  the  precise  focus  of  your  study  by  deciding  on  the  aims  and  objectives  of  the  project  work, 
formulating questions to be investigated, deciding the sampling techniques and statistical techniques to sum up 
the findings of the study. Consider very carefully what is worth investigating and its feasibility. Drawing  up  initial  project  work  outlines  considering  the  aims  and  objectives  of  the  project  work.  Workout 
various stages of project work 
 
6. Important instructions and information on Project Submission: 
 The title of the project should not be more than  12 words in length. The complete Project Work should be 
submitted in 15000-30000 words. You are supposed to submit project work along with extended abstract and 
project guide resume simultaneously.  You  must  be  careful  about  Originality  and  Relevance  of  Project  Topic  to  avoid  Project  Rejection  at  a  later 
stage. Therefore, you are required to submit a plagiarism report acknowledging 85% originality Project Guide must be Post Graduate with a minimum of 10 years of work experience Ensure to include signed & scanned copies of following essential certificates From Project Guide: Certifying bonafides of project work carried out under his/her supervision From a student: Certifying that submitted project work is an original piece of work and has not been submitted 
earlier You  will  receive  an  intimation  through  a  registered  email  address,  on  successful  uploading  of  project  work 
report Viva Questions will be accessible after uploading Project Work. Project submission will be accepted only after the Project file is uploaded and Viva questions are answered Generally, it takes four to six weeks to complete the process of evaluation of project work. 
 
 
PROJECT WORK : Guidelines 
Writing the Project Work:  
 Please submit the extended abstract of the project work in 3000-5000 words. 
 The extended abstract should case the following aspects: 
(a) The abstract for 500-1000 words An  abstract  is  an  overview  or  a  brief  summary  of  project  work,  which  helps  the  reader  to 
ascertain  the  purpose  of  carrying  the  project  work.  It  acts  as  a  stand-alone  entity  for  the 
complete project work. (b) The study hypotheses(null or alternative hypotheses, if applicable) (c) Literature Review Literature review(secondary sources) is the evaluation of substantive findings and theoretical 
and  methodological  contribution  to  a  particular  topic.  It  is  a  critical  analysis  of  the  previous 
research conducted in a particular area. (d) Research methodology adopted Research  methodology  is  the  implementation  of  methods  or  techniques  to  efficiently  solve  a 
research problem, which helps the reader to assess the validity and reliability of the study.  
Research methodology constitutes of: Research Design: Descriptive, Conclusive, Causal or Exploratory Sampling Technique: Probability or Non-Probability Data Collection: Tools used for data collection( for eg: questionnaire, survey, etc) Data Preparation: Classification and Tabulation of data Data Analysis: Hypotheses Testing (e) Results(theoretical or empirical) The findings of the study are to be summarized as: Data interpretation: Interpret and elaborate findings of the research Recommendation: Suggestions based on critical analysis of the results (f)  Implications of theory and practice  
 The  total  size  of  the  project  document  should  not  exceed  2MB.  Portable  document  format 
(.pdf), Microsoft Word (.doc, .docx) 
 Figures, graphs. Tables, Appendices and References should follow the American 
Psychological Association (APA) Style guide, 6th edition. 
 Mention the sources of any images, tables, figures cited or presented 
 Include a page header known as “running head at the top of every page 
 Use Font: Times New Roman; Font size: 12; Double-spaced; 1-inch (2.5cm) margin all around 
 Use American spellings( ‘program’ not ‘programme’; ‘center’ and not ‘centre’ 
 Use “z” spellings instead of “s” spellings(recognize, organize, summarize) 
 
7. Project Submission:  
Complete Project submission includes three stages (i)   Extended Abstract along with Guide Resume (ii)  Project Report Submission along with Plagiarism Report (iii) Answer Viva Questions 
 
8. Viva Submission: 
Viva Questions will include 5 descriptive questions related to your specific project. Viva questions are mandatory for the final project submission. 
 9. Evaluation Scheme:  Project Report 70 
Viva 30 
TOTAL of 100  
IMPORTANT NOTE 
Students  must  submit  all  Project  Components  (Extended  Abstract,  Guide  Resume,  Project  Report,  Plagiarism 
Report, and Viva Answers). In case of incomplete details, students will be asked to resubmit all project documents which would lead to 
delinquency in Academic Completion and Extension Fee. Plagiarism check would be conducted before evaluation, for all the Project Report submissions. If any report 
exceeds 15% plagiarism, the same would be rejected and the student will undergo the process of  resubmission 
as per rules. the process of plagiarism checking, it will be rejected for resubmission. 